#title Squid-GSB Documentation
#keywords squid, google safe browsing, redirector, gsb

This system provide support for Google Safe Browsing API in Squid.  It implemented as
Squid redirector, and installed according the documentation for squid's redirectors.

* How to obtain it

Latest versions of this software are available as source from repository at [[http://github.com/alexott/squid-gsb/tree/master][GitHub]].
Stable releases are available from [[../../common/cf][my site]] as archives.

* How to build

To build *squid-gsb* you need to have [[http://www.boost.org][boost c++ libraries]] version 1.35 or higher, and [[http://cmake.org][CMake]],
that is used to configuration & build of program.  To configure, you need to execute
following command staying at project's top directory:

<src lang="sh">
cmake . -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=install_path
</src>

If Boost is installed in non-standard place, you'll need to specify location of header
files and libraries with  CMake's directives
<code>-DBOOST_INCLUDEDIR=path_to_includes</code> and
<code>-DBOOST_LIBRARYDIR=path_to_libraries</code>. 

After configuration, you can build program with standard sequence of commands: =make= &&
=make install=.

It was successfully tested on Linux with kernel 2.6 (Ubuntu) and Mac OS X Tiger (10.4) on
iMac.  Theoretically it should be compilable also on MS Windows, but i hadn't tried yet.

* How to run

This system consists from two utilities: updater (=gsb-updater=) & checker (=gsb-redirector=).
Bot utilities accepts the same command-line options and use same configuration file.  Most
important option -- =-c=, specify where configuration file is located, by default used file
=squid-gsb.conf= in current directory.

Updater should run periodically (once per half hour via =cron=, for example) and will
connect to the google and update hashes.

Redirector run in endless loop and read url from stdin, check it against hashes and output
URL, if this site is found in corresponding hash, or empty line, if no matches found.
Utility automatically detects if hash files was updated and reload them.


* Configuration files

User could specify following options in configuration file (it's installed into
=PREFIX/etc/squid-gsb.conf=):

 =black-hash-file= :: file where black hash is stored. Default value --
   =PREFIX/var/squid-gsb/black-hash.dat=

 =black-url= (required) :: URL, that will substituted for sites, found in black list

 =malware-hash-file= :: file where malware hash is stored. Default value --
   =PREFIX/var/squid-gsb/malware-hash.dat=

 =malware-url= (required) :: URL, that will substituted for sites, found in malware list

 =key= (required) :: key for connecting to Google Safe Browsing API and perform updates.
   You can obtain it from [[http://code.google.com/apis/safebrowsing/][Google Safe Browsing API]] page

 =debug= -- specify - should we print debug information to stderr. Default value -- =no=.



;  LocalWords:  redirector GSB gsb

